8 What is the main reason for establishing a Baseline?
a) To standardise operation
b) For knowing the cost of services provided
c) For roles and responsibility to be clear
d) For later comparison
9 Which of these is the CORRECT description of normal service operation?
a) The service is operating in the way it usually does when there hasn't been an incident
b) The service is providing all functionality and performance that the business wants
c) The service is operating within the limits defined in the Service Level Agreement
d) All users are able to log in to the service and use it
10 Which of the following BEST describes the purpose of Event Management?
a) The ability to detect events, make sense of them and determine the appropriate control action
b) The ability to implement monitoring tools
c) The ability to monitor and control the activities of technical staff
d) The ability to report on the successful delivery of services by checking the uptime of infrastructure devices
11 The main objective of Availability Management is?
a) To monitor and report availability of services and components
b) To ensure that all targets in Service Level Agreements (SLAs) are met
c) To guarantee availability levels for services and components
d) To ensure that service availability matches or exceeds the agreed needs of the business
12 Defining the functional requirements for a new service is part of:
a) Service Operation: Application Management
b) Service Strategy: Service Portfolio Management
c) Service Design: Design the technology architecture
d) Service Design: Design the service solutions
13 Which of the following are characteristics of every process?
1. 2. 3. 4. 5.
a) b) c) d)
It is measurable
It is timely
It delivers a specific result
It responds to a specific event
It delivers its primary results to a customer or stakeholder
1, 2, 3 and 4 only 1, 2, 4 and 5 only 1, 3, 4 and 5 only All of the above
14 Which of the following is NOT one of the ITIL core publications?
a) Service Optimisation
b) Service Transition
c) Service Design
d) Service Strategy
15 There are 7 different sourcing strategies that a company can use. What is the newest form of outsourcing?
a) Knowledge Process Outsourcing
b) Partnership or multi-sourcing
c) Business Process Outsourcing (BPO)
d) Application Service Provision
16 Which of the following identifies two Service Portfolio components within the Service Lifecycle?
a) Service Pipeline and Service Catalogue
b) Service Knowledge Management System and Service Catalogue
c) Service Knowledge Management System and Service Pipeline
d) Service Pipeline and Configuration Management System
17 Consider the following statements:
1. Continual Service Improvement (CSI) provides guidance on how to improve process efficiency and effectiveness
2. CSI provides guidance on how to improve services
3. CSI provides guidance on the improvement of all phases of the Service Lifecycle 4. CSI provides guidance on the measurement of processes and services
Which of the above statements is CORRECT?
a) 1and2only
b) 2 only
c) 1,2and3only
d) All of the above
18 Which of the following BEST describes a Local Service Desk structure?
a) A Service Desk that also provides onsite technical support to its users
b) A Service Desk where analysts only speak one language
c) A Service Desk that is situated in the same location as the users it serves
d) A Service Desk that could be in any physical location but uses telecommunications and IT systems to make it appear that they are in the same location
19 Which of these is NOT a type of change?
a) Standard Change
b) Normal Change
c) Urgent Change
d) Emergency Change
20 Which of the following are the three main types of metrics as defined in Continual Service Improvement (CSI)?
1. Process Metrics
2. Supplier Metrics
3. Service Metrics
4. Technology Metrics
5. Business Metrics
a) 1,2and3
b) 2,4and5
c) 1,3and4
d) 1,2and4
21 Why should monitoring and measuring be used when trying to improve services?
a) To validate, direct, justify and intervene
b) To validate, measure, monitor and change
c) To validate, plan, act and improve
d) To validate, assign resources, purchase technology and train people
22 What is the RACI model used for?
a) Documenting the roles and relationships of stakeholders in a process or activity
b) Defining requirements for a new service or process
c) Analysing the business impact of an Incident
d) Creating a Balanced Scorecard showing the overall status of service management
23 What is the CORRECT order of the first four activities in the 7 Step Improvement Process?
a) Define what you should measure, define what you can measure, gather data and process data
b) Gather data, process data, analyse data and present data
c) What is the vision, where are we now, what do we want to be, how do we get there?
d) Gather data, process data, define what you should measure and define what you can measure
24 Which of the following statements is CORRECT?
1. Only one person can be responsible for an activity
2. Only one person can be accountable for an activity
a) Both of the above
b) 1 only
c) 2 only
d) Neither of the above
25 The goal of Service Asset and Configuration Management is to?
a) Account for all the financial assets of the organisation
b) Provide a logical model of the IT Infrastructure, correlating IT services and different IT components needed to deliver the services
c) Build service models to justify ITIL implementations
d) Implement ITIL across the organisation
26 Which is the CORRECT sequence of events in choosing a technology tool?
a) Select; Requirements; Selection Criteria; Evaluate.
b) Selection Criteria; Requirements; Evaluate; Select.
c) Requirements; Selection Criteria; Select; Evaluate.
d) Requirements; Selection Criteria; Evaluate; Select.
27 The four stages of the Deming Cycle are?
a) Plan, Measure, Monitor, Report
b) Plan, Check, Re-Act, Implement
c) Plan, Do, Act, Audit
d) Plan, Do, Check, Act
28 The BEST definition of an event is?
a) An occurrence where a performance threshold has been exceeded and an agreed Service Level has already been impacted
b) An occurrence that is significant for the management of the IT Infrastructure or delivery of services
c) A known system defect that generates multiple Incident reports
d) A planned meeting of customers and IT staff to announce a new service or improvement programme
29 Incident Management has a value to the business by?
a) Helping to control infrastructure cost of adding new technology
b) Enabling users to resolve Problems
c) Helping to align people and process for the delivery of service
d) Contributing to the reduction of impact of service outages
30 The following options are considered within which process?
1. Big Bang vs Phased
2. Push and Pull
3. Automated vs Manual
a) Incident Management
b) Release and Deployment Management
c) Service Asset and Configuration Management
d) Service Catalogue Management
31 Which are the missing Service Operation processes from the following?
1. Incident Management
2. Problem Management
3. Access Management
4. ?
5. ?
a) b) c) d)
Event Management and Request Fulfilment
Event Management and Service Desk
Facilities Management and Event Management
Change Management and Service Level Management
32 Sources of 'good practice' include which of the following?
1. Public frameworks
2. Standards
3. Proprietary knowledge of Individuals and Organisations
a) 1and2only
b) 2and3only
c) All of the above
d) 1and3only
33 Which of the following areas would technology help to support during the Service Design phase of the Lifecycle?
1. Hardware and Software design
2. Environmental design
3. Process design
4. Data design
a) 1,3and4only
b) 1,2and3only
c) All of the above
d) 2,3and4only
34 Setting policies and objectives is the primary concern of which of the following elements of the Service Lifecycle?
a) Service Strategy
b) Service Strategy and Continual Service Improvement
c) Service Strategy, Service Transition and Service Operation
d) Service Strategy, Service Design, Service Transition, Service Operation and Continual Service Improvement
35 The Service Level Manager has responsibility for ensuring that the aims of Service Level Management are met. The Service Level Manager is NOT responsible for?
a) Negotiating and agreeing Operational Level Agreements
b) Ensuring that all non-operational service are recorded within the Service Catalogue
c) Negotiating and agreeing Service Level Agreement
d) Assisting with the production and maintenance of an accurate Service Catalogue
36 Which of the following is NOT an objective of Service Operation?
a) Thorough testing to ensure that services are designed to meet business needs
b) To deliver and support IT services
c) To manage the technology used to deliver services
d) To monitor the performance of technology and processes
37 Which of the following is NOT an example of a Service Request?
a) A user calls the Service Desk to order a toner cartridge
b) A user calls the Service Desk because they would like to change the functionality of an application
c) A Manager submits a request for a new employee to be given access to an application
d) A user logs onto an internal web site to download a licensed copy of software from a list of approved options
38 Which of the following statements is CORRECT for ALL processes?
a) They define activities, roles, responsibilities, functions and metrics
b) They create value for stakeholders
c) They are carried out by a Service Provider in support of a Customer
d) They are units of organisations responsible for specific outcomes
39 Which of the following is NOT a step in the Continual Service Improvement (CSI) model?
a) What is the vision?
b) Did we get there?
c) Is there a budget?
d) Where are we now?
40 Which of the following statements about Supplier Management is INCORRECT?
a) Supplier Management negotiates internal and external agreements to support the delivery of services
b) Supplier Management ensures that suppliers meet business expectations
c) Supplier Management maintains information in a Supplier and Contract Database
d) Supplier Management should be involved in all stages of the Service Lifecycle, from Strategy through Design and Transition to Operations and Improvement